# ForestKit

iOS logging framework inspired by [Timber](https://github.com/JakeWharton/timber) and [square/logcat](https://github.com/square/logcat).

## Useage ForestKit

1. Install the library into your project.
    * Swift Package Manager:  `.package(url: "https://github.com/ameriod/ForestKit.git", from: "1.0.0")`
    * Carthage: Coming Soon
    * Cocoapods: Coming Soon

2. Install any tree instances in the ApplicationDelegate by calling `Forest.plant(tree)`
    * [ForestKit.OSLogTree](Targets/ForestKit/Sources/OSLogTree.swift)
    * [ForestKit.PrintTree](Targets/ForestKit/Sources/PrintTree.swift)
    * [ForestKit.FileOutputTree](Targets/ForestKit/Sources/FileOutputTree.swift)
    * Any class that extends from `Tree` 
    
3. Create typealias `ForestKit.instance` and add a pubic variable of `Forest`  so you do not need to import `ForestKit` or call `Forest.instance` everywhere in the app.

```Swift
public typealias ForestKitLogging = ForestKit
public let Forest = ForestKitLogging.instance
```

4. Call `Forest` with any of the logging options.
    * If logging is turned off then the message string will not be interpolated.

To disable logging just do not plant any trees. To remove a tree at run time call `Forest.uproot(tree)` or to remove all trees `Forest.uprootAll()`

See the [sample app](Targets/Forest/Sources) for more usage.

## Usage ForestKitView

The `ForestKitView.LogViewer` provides a SwiftUI view to view the logs producted by the [ForestKit.FileOutputTree](Targets/ForestKit/Sources/FileOutputTree.swift). Simplly add it the your debug menu of the app, and then you can search, filter, sort and copy the log messages.

## Project setup

The project is generated by [Tuist](https://github.com/tuist/tuist).

Install Tuist and from the project directory run:

```bash
tuist generate
```

After running generate the `Forest.xcodeproj` and `Forest.xcworkspace` will be generated.

If there are any new files added when you pull down from git you will need to regenerate the project.

## TODOs

* Add a `URLProtocol` to log network requests.
* Include the `URLProtocol` logs in the `ForestKitView.LogViewer`
* Add Carthage support.
* Add Cocopods support.
* Add CI/CD to build the project.
* Add tests for `ForestKit`.

## License

ForestKit is [MIT-Licensed](LICENSE) and it is included in the root of the repository.
